.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH MPT-STATUS 8 "November 2006"

.SH NAME
mpt-status \- retrieve configuration and health status from LSI hardware RAID controllers

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mpt-status [ options ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The mpt-status software is a query tool to access the running
configuration and status of LSI SCSI HBAs.  mpt-status allows you to
monitor the health and status of your RAID setup.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \~ \^ \-\-autoload 
This will try to automatically load the mptctl kernel module.
.TP
.B \-u \-\-controller <int>
Set the IOC unit (controller).
.TP
.B \-h \-\-help
Print some help information.
.TP
.B \-n \-\-newstyle
Use the new style output. This parameter was introduced to retain
backwards compatibility. If not set, you get the old style output.
It is very likely that the output of the newstyle format will change 
heavily in the future, so do not rely on it when writing plugins for
monitoring software, for example.
.TP
.B \-i \-\-set_id <int>
Set id of primary device (check README).
.TP
.B \-p \-\-probe_id
Use this to probe SCSI id's when not on id 0.
.TP
.B \-q \-\-quiet
Do not display any warnings.
.TP
.B \-s \-\-status_only
Only print the status information. This can
be used for easy scripting
.TP
.B \-v \-\-verbose
Print verbose information, such as warnings
.TP
.B \-V \-\-version
Print version information
.TP
.B \-d \-\-debug [<int>]
Enable debugging and set level optionally.
NOTE: This is not fully implemented yet.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The program's exit(2) status is meant to be interpreted as a bit
mask. If everything went well, zero is returned. If not (i.e. if
for example an error or unknown condition is detected), the bits
of the return value shall be interpreted as:
.TS
r r l
___
r r l.
Bit	Value	Meaning
0	1	Abnormal condition / unknown error
1	2	A logical volume has failed
2	4	A logical volume is degraded
3	8	A logical volume is resyncing
4	16	At least one physical disk failed
5	32	At least one physical disk is in warning condition
.TE

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to your linux distribution or software vendor, if mpt-status
was bundled on your installation. If you have been compiling mpt-status
from the vanilla sources and experience problems, redirect them to
preferably <ratz@drugphish.ch> or <rnibali@pyx.ch>.

.SH BUGS
Besides design bugs, gross software engineering and missing features,
this software is considered pretty stable and can be used in production
environments.

.SH FILES
.I /dev/mptctl

.SH SEE ALSO
LSI Logic provides CLI tools for megaraid controllers which you can find
on their webpage, following http://www.lsil.com/cm/DownloadSearch.do

.SH AUTHOR
mpt-status was written by Roberto Nibali <ratz@drugphish.ch>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Steffen Joeris <steffen.joeris@skolelinux.de>,
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
